Docs/(sakuli/sakuli dashboard#61)/how to config dashboard (#62)
sakuli/docs: content/enterprise_features/sakuli-dashboard-configuration.md

---
title : "Sakuli Dashboard Configuration"
date :  2019-09-12T14:16:46+02:00
weight : 8
---

# Sakuli Dashboard Configuration

> This section contains information on how to properly configure the Sakuli dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section contains information on how to configure the Sakuli dashboard.
```

> The Sakuli dashboard is configurable via environmental variables which are formatted as JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sakuli dashboard is configurable via environmental variables containing JSON documents.
```

> Check out the different sections to get an example template and detailed information about how to set up your 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the different sections to get example templates and detailed information about how to set up your 
```

Sakuli dashboard.

| Environment variable                   | Description                                                                       |
|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | [DASHBOARD_CONFIG](#dashboard_config)  | configures the displays (ordering, url, actions, etc.) shown in the dashboard     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [DASHBOARD_CONFIG](#dashboard_config)  | Configures the displays (ordering, url, action buttons, etc.) shown in the dashboard     |
```

> | [ACTION_CONFIG](#action_config)        | available actions to perform on the cluster and corresponding display updates     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [ACTION_CONFIG](#action_config)        | Available actions to perform on the cluster and corresponding display updates     |
```

> | [CLUSTER_CONFIG](#cluster_config)      | configures the cluster access (cluster address, access token, etc.)               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [CLUSTER_CONFIG](#cluster_config)      | Configures the cluster access (cluster address, access token, etc.)               |
```

> | [CRONJOB_CONFIG](#cronjob_config)      | configures a cronjob to schedule a specific action                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [CRONJOB_CONFIG](#cronjob_config)      | Configures a cronjob to schedule a specific action                                |
```

> Here you can see a Sakuli Dashboard with an exemplary configuration and information about the different sections below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following picture shows a Sakuli Dashboard with an exemplary configuration and information about the different sections below.
```

We should definitely ask the illustration team to rework this graphic. :sweat_smile:

 
{{<image "/images/sakuli-dashboard.png""The Sakuli-Dashboard explained">}} 

1. When hovering over the info button you can see the configurable tool tip.
2. This section represents the dashboards title.

> 3. You can display content in two different languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You can display content in German or English.
```

4. It is possible to choose between a row or column layout of the displays.

 
### DASHBOARD_CONFIG {#dashboard_config}

> With the `DASHBOARD_CONFIG` you can define the order and description of the display and what you want to embed within the iFrames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `DASHBOARD_CONFIG` defines the order and description of displays and the resources to embed within the iFrames.
```

Here is a sample `DASHBOARD_CONFIG` for the Sakuli dashboard. 

{{<highlight javascript>}}
{
   "displays":[                                                         
      {
         "index":1,                                                         //1                           
         "messages": {                                                      //2
             "de": {
                "description": "Ihr Kubernetes Service",
                "infoText": "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet"
             },
             "en": {
                "description": "Your Kubernetes service",
                "infoText": "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet"
             }
         },
         "url":"https://your-cluster.com",                                         //3
         "actionIdentifier":"your_action_id_123"                                   //4         
      },
      {
         "index":2,
         "messages": {
             "de": {
                "description": "Dokumentation von Sakuli"
             },
             "en": {
                "description": "Documentation of Sakuli"
             }
         },
         "url":"https://sakuli.io/docs"
      }
   ]
}
{{</highlight>}}

> Let us examine the different sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. The `index` defines the order for the displays on the Sakuli dashboard. 

> 2. The `messages` property is optional and can define the title using the `description` property and tool tip for the display using the `infoText`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Separated by language, the optional `messages` property specifies the title of a display using the `description` property and tool tip using the `infoText`
```

According to the implementation, the `messages` property is not optional. It might be and empty record but it is not optional.

Reviewer: There will be follow up issues => optional it is

> property. The content can be displayed in german or english using the appropriate section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
property. The content can be displayed in German or English.
```

> 3. The Sakuli dashboard embeds the `url` in an iFrame. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `url` to embed in the iFrame of the display. 
```

4. The `actionIdentifier` property is optional and references to an action defined within the [ACTION_CONFIG](#action_config).

### ACTION_CONFIG {#action_config}

> With the `ACTION_CONFIG` you can configure the actions that can be triggered by users and cronjobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ACTION_CONFIG` configures the actions triggered by users or cronjobs.
```

> Here is a sample `ACTION_CONFIG` for the Sakuli dashboard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25754312/91291822-e79a1680-e795-11ea-8a78-a6f94df731ba.png)
:joy:

{{<highlight javascript>}}
{
   "actions":[
      {
         "actionIdentifier":"your_action_id_123",    //1
         "action": {                                 //2
            "metadata": {
              "labels": {
                "app": "sakuli"
              },
              "name":"sakuli"
            },
            "spec": {
              "containers": [
                {
                  "name": "sakuli",
                  "image": "taconsol/sakuli:latest",
                  "env": [
                    {
                      "name": "VNC_VIEW_ONLY",
                      "value": "true"
                    },
                    {
                      "name": "SAKULI_ENCRYPTION_KEY",
                      "valueFrom": {
                        "secretKeyRef": {
                          "name": "sakuli-encryption-key",
                          "key": "key"
                        }
                      }
                    }
                  ]
                }
              ],
              "restartPolicy": "Never"
            }
         }
      }
   ]
}
{{</highlight>}}

> 1. Action identifier that is referenced inside `DASHBOARD_CONFIG`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Action identifier that is referenced inside `DASHBOARD_CONFIG` or `CRONJOB_CONFIG`.
```

> 2. Applies the Kubernetes/Openshift template on the cluster. In this case, the action represents a Kubernetes pod template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Kubernetes/Openshift pod template to be applied on the cluster. Currently only Pod configurations are supported.
```

Currently the action is limited to `V1Pod` interface.

> to start a Sakuli check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### CLUSTER_CONFIG {#cluster_config}

> With the `CLUSTER_CONFIG` you can enable the access to an existing cluster where you plan to execute your actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 `CLUSTER_CONFIG` to connect to an existing cluster where you plan to execute your actions.
```

{{<highlight javascript>}}
{
   "cluster":{                                              //1
      "name":"sakuli/examplecluster-com:443/developer",     //2           
      "server":"http://examplecluster.com:443"              //3
   },
   "user":{                                                 //4
      "name":"developer",         
      "token":"<login-token>"     
   },
   "namespace":"sakuli"                                     //5
}
{{</highlight>}}

> 1. Cluster for hosting dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Cluster to execute actions on.
```

> 2. Name of Cluster: `<namespace>/<cluster-address>:<port>/<user>`

Reviewer: In theory the cluster name is just a label to be set. It doesn't have to match the pattern you described as far as I understand

  Whereas in `<cluster-address>` every dot of the URL is replaced by a dash.
3. Cluster address and port number.
4. User to log onto cluster

> 5. Namespace of action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Namespace to execute actions in.
```

### CRONJOB_CONFIG {#cronjob_config}
{{<highlight javascript>}}
{
    "schedule": "*/20 * * * *",
    "actionIdentifier": "your_action_id_123"
}
{{</highlight>}}

> Schedule the action previously described in the [DASHBOARD_CONFIG](#dashboard_config) and [ACTION_CONFIG](#action_config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Schedules one action specified in [ACTION_CONFIG](#action_config).
```
